example-notes/3_Resources/Markdown-Demo.md, before:

---
title: Complete Markdown Demo
date: 2024-01-15
author: markdown-neuraxis
tags: [demo, markdown, reference, testing]
status: complete
project: Documentation
priority: high
id: md-demo-2024
---

Note, this file was generated by the AI and covers lots of things that aren't supported by markdown-neuraxis, and quite a few things that will never be supported, but it still makes for an interesting test file.

# Complete Markdown Demo for markdown-neuraxis

This file demonstrates all supported markdown features in markdown-neuraxis, including standard markdown, Logseq-style properties, task states, and advanced formatting.

## Table of Contents

- [[#basic-text-formatting|Basic Text Formatting]]
- [[#headings-and-hierarchy|Headings and Hierarchy]]
- [[#lists-and-bullets|Lists and Bullets]]
- [[#task-states-gtd|Task States (GTD)]]
- [[#properties-and-metadata|Properties and Metadata]]
- [[#links-and-references|Links and References]]
- [[#code-blocks|Code Blocks]]
- [[#advanced-features|Advanced Features]]

## Basic Text Formatting

Here are the basic text formatting options:

- **Bold text** using double asterisks
- *Italic text* using single asterisks
- ***Bold and italic*** using triple asterisks
- ~~Strikethrough text~~ using tildes
- `Inline code` using backticks
- Regular text with no formatting

You can combine these: **Bold with *nested italic* text** and `**bold code**`.

Line breaks can be created with two spaces at the end  
Like this line break.

Or use a blank line for paragraph breaks.

## Headings and Hierarchy

### Level 3 Heading
#### Level 4 Heading
##### Level 5 Heading
###### Level 6 Heading

## Lists and Bullets

### Unordered Lists with Mixed Markers

- Dash marker item
  - Nested with dash
    - Deeper nesting
      - Even deeper with 4 levels
        - Maximum depth
- Back to top level

* Asterisk marker item
  * Nested with asterisk
    * Deeper nesting
  * Back to level 2

+ Plus marker item
  + Nested with plus
  + Another plus item

### Ordered Lists

1. First numbered item
2. Second numbered item
   1. Nested numbered item
   2. Another nested item
      1. Deeper nested number
      2. Another deep item
3. Back to top level
4. Final numbered item

### Mixed Lists with Content

- Main bullet point
  ```python
  # Code block inside bullet
  def example():
      return "Code in bullets!"
  ```
  
- Bullet with blockquote
  > This is a quote inside a bullet point
  > It can span multiple lines
  
- Bullet with nested content
  - Sub-bullet with **bold text**
  - Sub-bullet with [[wiki-link]]
  - Sub-bullet with #tags

### Task Lists (Checkbox Style)

- [ ] Uncompleted task
- [x] Completed task  
- [ ] Another uncompleted task
  - [x] Nested completed subtask
  - [ ] Nested uncompleted subtask

## Task States (GTD)

### Core GTD Task States

- INBOX Unprocessed capture that needs triage
  captured:: 2024-01-15
  source:: email

- ACTION Call dentist for appointment
  priority:: high
  due:: 2024-01-16
  context:: #@phone

- DOING Complete quarterly review presentation
  started:: 2024-01-15T09:00
  progress:: 60%
  
- WAITING Budget approval from finance
  waiting-for:: CFO signature
  blocked-since:: 2024-01-10
  
- SOMEDAY Research vacation destinations for summer
  energy:: low
  review-date:: 2024-03-01

- DONE Reply to client email about project scope
  completed:: 2024-01-15T08:30
  outcome:: approved

- ABANDONED Old productivity system migration
  reason:: Better solution found
  abandoned:: 2024-01-10

### Task Hierarchies

- ACTION Plan team offsite
  due:: 2024-02-01
  assigned:: @sarah
  - DOING Research venues
    - DONE Check hotel availability
    - ACTION Get catering quotes
      contacts:: [Acme Catering, Best Foods LLC]
  - INBOX Send invitations
  - SOMEDAY Plan team building activities

## Properties and Metadata

### Logseq-style Properties in Bullets

- Meeting with design team
  attendees:: [@alice, @bob, @carol]
  location:: Conference Room A
  duration:: 2 hours
  outcome:: Approved new design system
  follow-up:: Schedule implementation planning

- Book: "Atomic Habits" by James Clear
  rating:: 9/10
  genre:: Self-help
  pages:: 320
  status:: completed
  notes:: Great insights on habit formation
  recommended-by:: @friend-jane

- Project milestone: User authentication complete
  milestone:: true
  completion-date:: 2024-01-15
  team:: [Frontend, Backend, QA]
  dependencies:: [API design, UI mockups]
  risks:: [Third-party integration, Security review]

### Inline Properties

- Buy groceries due::2024-01-16 #@errands priority::medium
- Team meeting at::2pm location::Zoom room::main-conference
- Call mom birthday::2024-01-20 gift-idea::flowers reminder::set

## Links and References

### Wiki Links (Internal)

- [[Getting-Started]] - Link to another file
- [[journal/2024-01-15]] - Link to specific journal
- [[1_Projects/Website-Redesign]] - Link to project file
- [[3_Resources/Productivity-Tips#time-blocking]] - Link to specific section

### External Links

- [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/) - External website
- [GTD Methodology](https://gettingthingsdone.com/ "Official GTD website") - Link with title
- [Reference link style][1] using reference syntax

### Cross-references with UUIDs (Logseq-style)

- Main goal: Complete certification course
  id:: 68951faf-4df2-4851-9c38-12474ce9806a
  
- Study session for course
  goal:: ((68951faf-4df2-4851-9c38-12474ce9806a))
  duration:: 2 hours

## Code Blocks

### Programming Languages

```javascript
// JavaScript example
function calculateTax(income, rate) {
    return income * rate / 100;
}

const tax = calculateTax(50000, 25);
console.log(`Tax owed: $${tax}`);
```

```python
# Python example with line numbers
def fibonacci(n):
    """Generate Fibonacci sequence up to n"""
    a, b = 0, 1
    while a < n:
        yield a
        a, b = b, a + b

# Usage
for num in fibonacci(100):
    print(num, end=' ')
```

```rust
// Rust example
fn main() {
    let numbers = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let sum: i32 = numbers.iter().sum();
    println!("Sum: {}", sum);
}
```

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Shell script example
echo "Setting up markdown-neuraxis..."
cargo build --release
mkdir -p ~/notes/journal
cd ~/notes && ../target/release/markdown-neuraxis .
```

```sql
-- SQL example
SELECT p.name, COUNT(t.id) as task_count
FROM projects p
LEFT JOIN tasks t ON p.id = t.project_id
WHERE p.status = 'active'
GROUP BY p.name
ORDER BY task_count DESC;
```

### Configuration Files

```yaml
# YAML configuration
database:
  host: localhost
  port: 5432
  name: markdown_neuraxis
  
features:
  - wiki_links
  - task_states
  - properties
  - code_highlighting
```

```json
{
  "name": "markdown-neuraxis",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "features": [
    "parsing",
    "editing", 
    "gui"
  ],
  "dependencies": {
    "pulldown-cmark": "0.11",
    "dioxus": "0.6"
  }
}
```

```toml
# Cargo.toml example
[package]
name = "markdown-neuraxis"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

[dependencies]
dioxus = "0.6"
pulldown-cmark = "0.11"
```

## Advanced Features

### Blockquotes

> Standard blockquote for highlighting important information
> This can span multiple lines

> Nested quotes work too
>> Like this deeper quote
>>> And even deeper

> **Bold text in quotes** and *italic text*
> 
> With code: `inline code in quotes`

### Tables

| Feature | Status | Priority | Notes |
|---------|--------|----------|-------|
| Basic parsing | ✅ Done | High | Core functionality |  
| Wiki links | ✅ Done | High | Internal navigation |
| Task states | ✅ Done | High | GTD methodology |
| Properties | 🚧 In Progress | Medium | Logseq compatibility |
| Queries | ❌ Todo | Low | Dynamic dashboards |
| Kanban view | ❌ Todo | Medium | Visual task management |

### Alignment Example

| Left Aligned | Center Aligned | Right Aligned |
|:-------------|:--------------:|--------------:|
| Text | Text | Text |
| More text | More text | More text |

### Complex Lists with Everything

- PROJECT Website redesign project
  id:: proj-website-2024
  status:: active
  team:: [@alice, @bob, @design-team]
  budget:: $15000
  deadline:: 2024-03-15
  
  - ACTION Create wireframes
    assigned:: @alice
    due:: 2024-01-20
    dependencies:: [User research, Brand guidelines]
    
    ```mermaid
    flowchart LR
        A[Research] --> B[Wireframes]
        B --> C[Design]
        C --> D[Development]
    ```
    
  - DOING User research and interviews
    progress:: 75%
    interviews-completed:: 8/10
    insights:: [Mobile-first needed, Accessibility gaps, Performance issues]
    
    > "Users want faster load times and better mobile experience"
    > - Key finding from user interview #3
    
  - WAITING Design system approval
    waiting-for:: Stakeholder review
    escalation-date:: 2024-01-18
    
### HTML Elements (When Needed)

<details>
<summary>🔍 Click to expand advanced configuration</summary>

This section contains advanced configuration options that are collapsed by default.

```yaml
advanced_settings:
  performance:
    cache_size: 1000
    lazy_loading: true
  ui:
    theme: solarized-light
    animations: enabled
```

</details>

### Horizontal Rules

Content above the rule

---

Content after triple dashes

***

Content after triple asterisks  

___

Content after triple underscores

### Escaping and Special Characters

- Use backslash to escape: \*not italic\* and \#not-a-tag
- Special characters: © ® ™ § ¶ † ‡ • … ‰ ‱ ¿ ¡
- Emoji: 🚀 📝 ✅ ❌ 🔍 💡 ⚡ 🎯 🏆 📊
- Unicode: α β γ δ ε → ← ↑ ↓ ∞ ± × ÷

### Inline HTML (Limited Support)

Regular text with <mark>highlighted text</mark> and <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd> keyboard shortcuts.

<sup>superscript</sup> and <sub>subscript</sub> text.

## Tags and Contexts

### Regular Tags
This content has #markdown #demo #reference tags throughout.

### GTD Contexts  
Tasks organized by context: #@home #@office #@computer #@phone #@errands #@agenda

### Energy Levels
Organize by energy: #energy-high #energy-medium #energy-low

### Project Tags
Link to projects: #project-website #project-mobile-app #project-documentation

## Queries (Planned Feature)

```query
query:: status:: DOING
```

```query  
query:: tags:: #work AND due:: before::2024-01-20
```

```query
query:: project:: ((proj-website-2024)) AND status:: NOT DONE
```

## File References

Related files in this knowledge base:
- [[Getting-Started]] - System introduction
- [[How-It-All-Works]] - Methodology overview  
- [[journal/2024-01-15]] - Daily planning example
- [[1_Projects/Learn-PKM-System]] - Learning project
- [[2_Areas/Health-Fitness]] - Life area management
- [[0_Inbox/quick-capture]] - Inbox processing

---

## Summary

This demo file showcases the comprehensive markdown support in markdown-neuraxis, including:

✅ **Standard Markdown**: Headers, lists, links, code, tables, quotes  
✅ **GTD Task States**: INBOX, ACTION, DOING, WAITING, DONE, SOMEDAY, ABANDONED  
✅ **Logseq Properties**: Key-value metadata in bullets and inline  
✅ **Wiki Links**: Internal cross-referencing with [[double brackets]]  
✅ **UUID References**: Cross-document linking with ((uuid)) syntax  
✅ **Tags & Contexts**: Flexible categorization with #hashtags  
✅ **YAML Frontmatter**: Document metadata and properties  
✅ **Code Highlighting**: Multi-language syntax support  
✅ **Advanced Lists**: Deep nesting with mixed content types  

This creates a powerful, flexible system for personal knowledge management and task organization that works entirely with plain text files.

*Generated: 2024-01-15 | System: markdown-neuraxis v0.1.0*

[1]: https://example.com/reference-link

Commit message:

Example notes - note forced linebreaks

example-notes/3_Resources/Markdown-Demo.md, after:

---
title: Complete Markdown Demo
date: 2024-01-15
author: markdown-neuraxis
tags: [demo, markdown, reference, testing]
status: complete
project: Documentation
priority: high
id: md-demo-2024
---

Note, this file was generated by the AI and covers lots of things that aren't supported by markdown-neuraxis, and quite a few things that will never be supported, but it still makes for an interesting test file.

# Complete Markdown Demo for markdown-neuraxis

This file demonstrates all supported markdown features in markdown-neuraxis, including standard markdown, Logseq-style properties, task states, and advanced formatting.

## Table of Contents

- [[#basic-text-formatting|Basic Text Formatting]]
- [[#headings-and-hierarchy|Headings and Hierarchy]]
- [[#lists-and-bullets|Lists and Bullets]]
- [[#task-states-gtd|Task States (GTD)]]
- [[#properties-and-metadata|Properties and Metadata]]
- [[#links-and-references|Links and References]]
- [[#code-blocks|Code Blocks]]
- [[#advanced-features|Advanced Features]]

## Basic Text Formatting

Here are the basic text formatting options:

- **Bold text** using double asterisks
- *Italic text* using single asterisks
- ***Bold and italic*** using triple asterisks
- ~~Strikethrough text~~ using tildes
- `Inline code` using backticks
- Regular text with no formatting

You can combine these: **Bold with *nested italic* text** and `**bold code**`.

Line breaks can be created with two spaces at the end  
Like this line break.

Or use a blank line for paragraph breaks.

## Headings and Hierarchy

### Level 3 Heading
#### Level 4 Heading
##### Level 5 Heading
###### Level 6 Heading

## Lists and Bullets

### Unordered Lists with Mixed Markers

- Dash marker item
  - Nested with dash
    - Deeper nesting
      - Even deeper with 4 levels
        - Maximum depth
- Back to top level

* Asterisk marker item
  * Nested with asterisk
    * Deeper nesting
  * Back to level 2

+ Plus marker item
  + Nested with plus
  + Another plus item

### Ordered Lists

1. First numbered item
2. Second numbered item
   1. Nested numbered item
   2. Another nested item
      1. Deeper nested number
      2. Another deep item
3. Back to top level
4. Final numbered item

### Mixed Lists with Content

- Main bullet point
  ```python
  # Code block inside bullet
  def example():
      return "Code in bullets!"
  ```
  
- Bullet with blockquote
  > This is a quote inside a bullet point
  > It can span multiple lines
  
- Bullet with nested content
  - Sub-bullet with **bold text**
  - Sub-bullet with [[wiki-link]]
  - Sub-bullet with #tags

### Task Lists (Checkbox Style)

- [ ] Uncompleted task
- [x] Completed task  
- [ ] Another uncompleted task
  - [x] Nested completed subtask
  - [ ] Nested uncompleted subtask

## Task States (GTD)

### Core GTD Task States

- INBOX Unprocessed capture that needs triage
  captured:: 2024-01-15
  source:: email

- ACTION Call dentist for appointment
  priority:: high
  due:: 2024-01-16
  context:: #@phone

- DOING Complete quarterly review presentation
  started:: 2024-01-15T09:00
  progress:: 60%
  
- WAITING Budget approval from finance
  waiting-for:: CFO signature
  blocked-since:: 2024-01-10
  
- SOMEDAY Research vacation destinations for summer
  energy:: low
  review-date:: 2024-03-01

- DONE Reply to client email about project scope
  completed:: 2024-01-15T08:30
  outcome:: approved

- ABANDONED Old productivity system migration
  reason:: Better solution found
  abandoned:: 2024-01-10

### Task Hierarchies

- ACTION Plan team offsite
  due:: 2024-02-01
  assigned:: @sarah
  - DOING Research venues
    - DONE Check hotel availability
    - ACTION Get catering quotes
      contacts:: [Acme Catering, Best Foods LLC]
  - INBOX Send invitations
  - SOMEDAY Plan team building activities

## Properties and Metadata

### Logseq-style Properties in Bullets

- Meeting with design team
  attendees:: [@alice, @bob, @carol]
  location:: Conference Room A
  duration:: 2 hours
  outcome:: Approved new design system
  follow-up:: Schedule implementation planning

- Book: "Atomic Habits" by James Clear
  rating:: 9/10
  genre:: Self-help
  pages:: 320
  status:: completed
  notes:: Great insights on habit formation
  recommended-by:: @friend-jane

- Project milestone: User authentication complete
  milestone:: true
  completion-date:: 2024-01-15
  team:: [Frontend, Backend, QA]
  dependencies:: [API design, UI mockups]
  risks:: [Third-party integration, Security review]

### Inline Properties

- Buy groceries due::2024-01-16 #@errands priority::medium
- Team meeting at::2pm location::Zoom room::main-conference
- Call mom birthday::2024-01-20 gift-idea::flowers reminder::set

## Links and References

### Wiki Links (Internal)

- [[Getting-Started]] - Link to another file
- [[journal/2024-01-15]] - Link to specific journal
- [[1_Projects/Website-Redesign]] - Link to project file
- [[3_Resources/Productivity-Tips#time-blocking]] - Link to specific section

### External Links

- [Markdown Guide](https://www.markdownguide.org/) - External website
- [GTD Methodology](https://gettingthingsdone.com/ "Official GTD website") - Link with title
- [Reference link style][1] using reference syntax

### Cross-references with UUIDs (Logseq-style)

- Main goal: Complete certification course
  id:: 68951faf-4df2-4851-9c38-12474ce9806a
  
- Study session for course
  goal:: ((68951faf-4df2-4851-9c38-12474ce9806a))
  duration:: 2 hours

## Code Blocks

### Programming Languages

```javascript
// JavaScript example
function calculateTax(income, rate) {
    return income * rate / 100;
}

const tax = calculateTax(50000, 25);
console.log(`Tax owed: $${tax}`);
```

```python
# Python example with line numbers
def fibonacci(n):
    """Generate Fibonacci sequence up to n"""
    a, b = 0, 1
    while a < n:
        yield a
        a, b = b, a + b

# Usage
for num in fibonacci(100):
    print(num, end=' ')
```

```rust
// Rust example
fn main() {
    let numbers = vec![1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
    let sum: i32 = numbers.iter().sum();
    println!("Sum: {}", sum);
}
```

```bash
#!/bin/bash
# Shell script example
echo "Setting up markdown-neuraxis..."
cargo build --release
mkdir -p ~/notes/journal
cd ~/notes && ../target/release/markdown-neuraxis .
```

```sql
-- SQL example
SELECT p.name, COUNT(t.id) as task_count
FROM projects p
LEFT JOIN tasks t ON p.id = t.project_id
WHERE p.status = 'active'
GROUP BY p.name
ORDER BY task_count DESC;
```

### Configuration Files

```yaml
# YAML configuration
database:
  host: localhost
  port: 5432
  name: markdown_neuraxis
  
features:
  - wiki_links
  - task_states
  - properties
  - code_highlighting
```

```json
{
  "name": "markdown-neuraxis",
  "version": "0.1.0",
  "features": [
    "parsing",
    "editing", 
    "gui"
  ],
  "dependencies": {
    "pulldown-cmark": "0.11",
    "dioxus": "0.6"
  }
}
```

```toml
# Cargo.toml example
[package]
name = "markdown-neuraxis"
version = "0.1.0"
edition = "2021"

[dependencies]
dioxus = "0.6"
pulldown-cmark = "0.11"
```

## Advanced Features

### Blockquotes

> Standard blockquote for highlighting important information
> This can span multiple lines

> Nested quotes work too
>> Like this deeper quote
>>> And even deeper

> **Bold text in quotes** and *italic text*
> 
> With code: `inline code in quotes`

### Tables

| Feature | Status | Priority | Notes |
|---------|--------|----------|-------|
| Basic parsing | ✅ Done | High | Core functionality |  
| Wiki links | ✅ Done | High | Internal navigation |
| Task states | ✅ Done | High | GTD methodology |
| Properties | 🚧 In Progress | Medium | Logseq compatibility |
| Queries | ❌ Todo | Low | Dynamic dashboards |
| Kanban view | ❌ Todo | Medium | Visual task management |

### Alignment Example

| Left Aligned | Center Aligned | Right Aligned |
|:-------------|:--------------:|--------------:|
| Text | Text | Text |
| More text | More text | More text |

### Complex Lists with Everything

- PROJECT Website redesign project
  id:: proj-website-2024
  status:: active
  team:: [@alice, @bob, @design-team]
  budget:: $15000
  deadline:: 2024-03-15
  
  - ACTION Create wireframes
    assigned:: @alice
    due:: 2024-01-20
    dependencies:: [User research, Brand guidelines]
    
    ```mermaid
    flowchart LR
        A[Research] --> B[Wireframes]
        B --> C[Design]
        C --> D[Development]
    ```
    
  - DOING User research and interviews
    progress:: 75%
    interviews-completed:: 8/10
    insights:: [Mobile-first needed, Accessibility gaps, Performance issues]
    
    > "Users want faster load times and better mobile experience"
    > - Key finding from user interview #3
    
  - WAITING Design system approval
    waiting-for:: Stakeholder review
    escalation-date:: 2024-01-18
    
### HTML Elements (When Needed)

<details>
<summary>🔍 Click to expand advanced configuration</summary>

This section contains advanced configuration options that are collapsed by default.

```yaml
advanced_settings:
  performance:
    cache_size: 1000
    lazy_loading: true
  ui:
    theme: solarized-light
    animations: enabled
```

</details>

### Horizontal Rules

Content above the rule

---

Content after triple dashes

***

Content after triple asterisks  

___

Content after triple underscores

### Escaping and Special Characters

- Use backslash to escape: \*not italic\* and \#not-a-tag
- Special characters: © ® ™ § ¶ † ‡ • … ‰ ‱ ¿ ¡
- Emoji: 🚀 📝 ✅ ❌ 🔍 💡 ⚡ 🎯 🏆 📊
- Unicode: α β γ δ ε → ← ↑ ↓ ∞ ± × ÷

### Inline HTML (Limited Support)

Regular text with <mark>highlighted text</mark> and <kbd>Ctrl+C</kbd> keyboard shortcuts.

<sup>superscript</sup> and <sub>subscript</sub> text.

## Tags and Contexts

### Regular Tags
This content has #markdown #demo #reference tags throughout.

### GTD Contexts  
Tasks organized by context: #@home #@office #@computer #@phone #@errands #@agenda

### Energy Levels
Organize by energy: #energy-high #energy-medium #energy-low

### Project Tags
Link to projects: #project-website #project-mobile-app #project-documentation

## Queries (Planned Feature)

```query
query:: status:: DOING
```

```query  
query:: tags:: #work AND due:: before::2024-01-20
```

```query
query:: project:: ((proj-website-2024)) AND status:: NOT DONE
```

## File References

Related files in this knowledge base:
- [[Getting-Started]] - System introduction
- [[How-It-All-Works]] - Methodology overview  
- [[journal/2024-01-15]] - Daily planning example
- [[1_Projects/Learn-PKM-System]] - Learning project
- [[2_Areas/Health-Fitness]] - Life area management
- [[0_Inbox/quick-capture]] - Inbox processing

---

## Summary

This demo file showcases the comprehensive markdown support in markdown-neuraxis, including:

✅ **Standard Markdown**: Headers, lists, links, code, tables, quotes  
✅ **GTD Task States**: INBOX, ACTION, DOING, WAITING, DONE, SOMEDAY, ABANDONED  
✅ **Logseq Properties**: Key-value metadata in bullets and inline  
✅ **Wiki Links**: Internal cross-referencing with [[double brackets]]  
✅ **UUID References**: Cross-document linking with ((uuid)) syntax  
✅ **Tags & Contexts**: Flexible categorization with #hashtags  
✅ **YAML Frontmatter**: Document metadata and properties  
✅ **Code Highlighting**: Multi-language syntax support  
✅ **Advanced Lists**: Deep nesting with mixed content types  

The above checkbox bullets all have a forced linebreak at the end due to two trailing spaces on every line, and should be rendered on individual lines.

*Generated: 2024-01-15 | System: markdown-neuraxis v0.1.0*

[1]: https://example.com/reference-link
